Basic Unix / miscellaneous  

Tutorial 0 

Login 

In order to start up Unix, the user would need to access a terminal for it. On a Windows machine, press on the Windows key and R key simultaneously. This would open a prompt, from there, type cmd and click on run. On a Mac, click on the magnifier glass at the top right of the screen. It should open a search prompt and type in “Terminal”.  

rwx  

rwx is used to set permissions for files and directories. R stands for read, or who can read the file. This should always be set by default. W stands for write, or who can write into the file. Finally, x stands for execute, for who can run the file. In Unix, these are represented with numbers, 0 through 7. If the file has a 0 next to it, it just means there are no permissions. A 1 means it can be executed. A 2 means it can be written in. A 3 means it can be written in and executed. A 4 means it can be read. A 5 means it can be read and executed. A 6 means it can be read and written in. And a 7 means it can be read, written in, and executed. Permissions are then divided into three separate categories. The three being owner permissions, group permissions, and public permissions. 

 man command 

The man command is used to bring up a manual for any command. This is extremely useful for when the user needs to search up what a specific command does or just forget what does.  

whoami 

The whoami command simply just shows the user who they are currently logged in as in the terminal. It can be useful if there are multiple people who use the computer and log into the terminal. 

ls  

The ls command is used to show the user all the directories and files that the user can go to.  


Tutorial 1 

Files 

cat 

The cat command is used to read off the contents of the file to the user. Simply inputting cat followed by the file name would provide the user with the contents by reading the file.  

cp 

The cp command is used to copy files. There are some condictiones to this, however. The first being that if it is in the same directory, it needs to have a different name. The contents can still be the same. But, if the file is going to a different directory, it can be either have a different name or the same name. Learn more about directories in the next topic. 

mv 

The mv command is used to rename the file. The way it works is that it creates a new file with the new name that you have provided, moves all the content from that old file onto the new one, then deletes the old file. That move of content is why is it mv instead of one that is more related to renaming. The way to do this is: mc oldfile newfile , replacing oldfile with the file you wish to be replaced and replacing newfile with the file you wish to rename it to.  

rm 

The rm command is used to remove a file. This deletes everything inside of the file as well, so be careful.  

Tutorial 2 

Directory 

pwd 

The pwd command is used to show the current directory that the user is in. It shows the root that it takes, going from the shell to the current directory. 

cd 

The cd command is used to allow the user to change directories. If a user wishes to enter another directory outside of their current directory, they need to go back to the previous directory to do so until there is a clear path to get to the desired directory.  

md/mkdir 

The md or mkdir command is used to make a new directory. This creates a directory inside of the current directory, so a user should make sure that they are in the correct directory they wish to be in.  


Advanced Unix 

Tutorial 3 

Advanced Files 

touch 

The touch command is another way of making a file in a directory. The command would also provide the user with a timestamp of last modified. There is another command that creates another directory and it’s a single input of >. The advantage of using touch over this is that > doesn’t have the timestamp like touch does.  

 wc 

The wc command is used to find the number of lines, characters, words, and more about a file. Following wc, there are options for what you are looking for. To find lines, it would be –l. To find words, it would be –w. To find bytes, it would be –c. To find characters, it would be –m.  

chmod  

The chmod command is used to change the file’s permissions. The user would need to set the permissions using the numbers from the rwx lesson. The command is used by typing in cmod [file name] followed by the permission numbers that the user would like to assicate with them. When typing out the numbers, there should be no spaces in between them.  

gzip 

The gzip command is used to compress down a file and turn it into a .gz file implying that it is zipped and compressed.  This is a git command that allows the user to compress the bytes that a file takes.  

gzcat 

The gzcat command is used to check the contents of a zipped file. This is another git command. This command only works on compressed files so if a user wishes to use it, they need to ensure that they properly use the gzip command first.  

gunzip 

The gunzip command is used to unzip a file, changing it back to the original file type instead of a .gz and thus resorting the file back to the number of bytes it was before the compression. This is a git command as well.  


Tutorial 4 

Advanced Directory  

clone 

The clone command will create a copy of a repository and put it into the directory. This is a git command. A repository would usually be a link to a path, starting from the domain. 

open 

The open command will open the directory inside of your file finder. This is another git command. Using this will require permission from the terminal to access your file explorer, but it will save everything inside of a specific folder. 


Tutorial 5 

Coding 

Start of the command prompt 

When inputting any commands into the terminal, you can see that it might have a $ or a # symbol before you start typing. The $ symbol means that the user is a normal user. The # symbol means that the user is the system administrator. A user can set variables, but variables cannot do calculations, thus if a user attempts to, it will print out the exact thing written inside of the variable.  

echo 

The echo command is used to print out lines or inputs that the user feed it. This works with strings or variables that the user gives it. For example, inputting $echo “Hello” with provide the user with the word Hello on the next line.  

ping 

The ping command is usually used to check if you are connected to the internet. Usually, a user will ping their own ip address and check to see if they get a ping back in return. This also works with other ip addresses or domains such as Google.com. 


Tutorial 6 

Vi editor 

vi 

vi is a used to edit files and lines in that file. Using vi followed by the name of file will either create the file or open the existing file with that name. When the user starts up vi, the interface of the terminal will change entirely. Typing anything here will create the file with exactly what you type. A way to get to the next line is by hitting the enter/return key. In order to exit out of vi, hit the escape key twice. One a user has, you can either quit it by typing in :q. If a user wishes to save the progress, they made in vi, they will need to type in :w. And if a user wishes to exit without saving, they will need to type in :q!.  

vi –R / view 

The vi –R and the view commands are used to open a file and set its permission to read only or to the number 4. Using this command will print what the user wrote using vi in the file. There is not a way for a machine to be able to use wc on a vi file.  


 
